= 10 kick-ass Vim tips =
%toc

Here are 10 Vim tips that I think you should know about (if you use Vim).

== The super star and sharp ==

In normal mode you can use * and # to search for a word under the cursor.
* searches forward for the word, while # searches backwards.

== Simple completion in any text ==

Hit CTRL-N once in insert mode and it will try to complete the current word 
with the first match in the current file. CTRL-P does the same thing but 
searches backwards.

== The . ==

Type . in normal mode to repeat last change, this is super useful when doing a receptive task.

== The % key ==

You can use the % key to jump to a matching opening or closing parenthesis, 
square bracket or a curly brace. Insanely useful when programming.

== Indent using == and = ==

When working with source code it is very nice to work with indented code.
To indent the current line issue == in normal mode. Use Shift-V to go into 
visual mode, select a couple of lines and do = to indent them.

== Undo and redo ==

You can use u to undo the last change. CTRL-R redoes a change that has been undone. 
U returns the current line to its original state.

In Vim 7 you can use g- or g+ to go between text-states. To go to a text state 
1 minute earlier, you can use:

    :eariler 1m

== Incremental search ==

There is a really neat search-option (Firefox users will love this tip). 
When you search (for example, using /), the matches will be shown while you type. 
To turn this option on, type following:

    set incsearch

== Highlighting all the search pattern matches ==

To highlight all the search pattern matches in a file set the following option:

    :set hlsearch
    
To disable the highlighting temporarily, use:

    :nohlsearch
    
